Israel is denying reports of a ceasefire
in southern Gaza to allow foreign
Nationals to flee for Egypt some media
Outlets had said the ruer border
crossing was about to be opened to allow
people to leave and Aid to enter the
besieged territory un fuel trucks have
been seen in the area but their
destination is still unclear reports had
said the truce at the border would take
hold for several hours for the office of
Israeli Prime Minister Benyamin
Netanyahu says this is not the case
Palestinians have been gathering at the
Crossing in the hope of escaping
Israel's
bombardment our correspondent Tanya kma
is in southern Israel and she told me
more about the possible opening of the
Rafa border
crossing well at the moment it's a bit
of a confusion whether it will open or
how it will open because in the early
morning there were first reports that
there would be a pause in the
hostilities or a kind of temporary
ceasefire for the cross Crossing to be
open that people can pass mainly this
would be opening for dual Nationals as
far as we understand for foreign
Nationals to foreign n Palestinians with
foreign nationality to uh pass through
the crossing but um this was based on
reports in a a news agency uh but uh we
have now the uh Israeli Prime Minister's
office had put out a statement and
denying that uh this will happening uh
there was also reports here when Hamas
official reported saying that they're
not aware of such an opening at the same
time we are getting reports that some of
the trucks are uh leaving from Gaza to
Egypt so we need to get you some
information uh uh and confirmation on
that um in the coming uh hours or so
there is uh of course you have to
understand what's happening here in the
past 24 hours as well there have been
despite the movement of people from the
north uh the evacuation order by the
Israeli Army going to the South uh they
have been still air strikes in the
southern part of course of Gaza and
people it's a very complicated Crossing
so opening a crossing under the
circumstances there need to be all
parties involved so that people can move
from place to place it it takes a bit of
time to get people through the crossing
and also we have to say Egypt is also
very worried about opening this Crossing
because they don't want to see masses of
uh Palestinians then being refugees on
their territory so at the moment um you
know it's not entirely confirmed when
the Crossing will actually be open for
the people to move uh in that
direction what about the situation on
Israel's uh Northern froner with Lebanon
can you tell us more about
that well we've seen in the past days
ever since uh um uh the War uh started
uh more and more incidents in on the
northern border between Israel and
Lebanon between uh some of the um
Palestinian factions there but also
Hezbollah and Israel like anti tank fire
missile fire and uh this morning uh the
Israeli defense Ministry and the Israeli
Army put out a joint statement saying
that they intend to evacuate the
residents of the northern border towns
and Villages uh that are in the area up
to 2 kilometers next to the libanese
Border there will be people there will
be hosted in state sponsored guest
houses for the time being so meaning
this could be an indication that you
know there's also the expectation that
uh there the situation might get worse
so far it seemed to be somehow contained
as far as you can say that but there's
of course a lot of worry and concern
that there might be a second front being
opening especially if such a ground
invasion in Gaza might start and that
Hezbollah might enter the war or hisbah
Iran back so that there might be another
front uh opening up uh in the north
tanyaa reporting from ashdod thank you
so much
Tanya the Israeli milit milary has
raised to
199 the number of people confirmed to
have been abducted by Hamas to the Gaza
Strip Israel has been massing troops and
tanks on the border with Gaza ahead of a
much anticipated ground offensive
they've ordered more than one million
gazans to move South ahead of the
operation hundreds of thousands of
people in Gaza are in a desperate
situation now as supplies of water
electricity and food run low Israel has
stepped up its bombing of The Enclave as
part of its campaign to obliterate Hamas
after the group massacred more than
1,000 Israeli
civilians a moment of silence for the
victims of Israel's deadliest terror
attack this is how the first meeting of
Israel's expanded emergency cabinet
began the solemn mood followed by a vow
for
vengeance I saw our wonderful fighters
who are now on the front line they know
that the whole nation is behind
them they understand the magnitude of
the task they are ready to snap into
action at any moment to wipe out the
bloodthirsty monsters who seek to
annihilate us if Hamas thought we would
fall apart they were
wrong we will tear Hamas
apart Israeli forces have been amassing
at the Gaza border waiting for the green
light to begin a much anticipated ground
offensive
as the threat of invasion looms air
strikes have continued raining down
across the besieged territory hundreds
of thousands of Palestinians have fled
to the south after an Israeli evacuation
order but they're not safe from air
strikes here
either Israel also cut off garan's
access to food water and electricity
compounding the
misery
the cues for water wind their way down
streets desperate people line up for
hours I've come to get water we don't
have any water we've reached a
disastrous
situation the situation is catastrophic
by all standards with the crisis in food
water and electricity I mean people
can't do anything in the current
conditions if you go to people's homes
and film inside you will see extremely
dire
situations Israel says it's now agreed
to turn the Taps back on in southern
Gaza providing a drop of relief as the
conflict
deepens I spoke to journalist hazam
baloa earlier he's in narat in the
central Gaza Strip and he told me more
about the situation there uh it's kot um
in um there is continuous of Israeli uh
aerial bombardment and air strikes in
different areas across the Gaza St um
there are reports that it's more intense
in Gaza City and um uh the Border area
and Northern bar of Gaza but still as
well there were many strikes in in my
area and um in the South inun and raasa
um regarding the humanitarian situation
still there is no
electricity um um as you mentioned in
the report there are like cues uh for
people with galloons and tanks or
whatever they have to to fill it with
the with the water for washing there is
no drinking water um barely some mobile
trucks come to the areas uh along cues
at the bakeries and restaurants and and
and grocery shops to grab whatever they
have they uh there are many people are
are sleeping overnight in their cars or
in the street because there is no place
to go go still Israelis are asking
Palestinians in the north and and and
Gaza City to evacuate to kanun but um
those people they are not able to move
because there is no uh Transportation or
it's risky Road um um um um um and you
know like people wondering um about like
when when um this is going to end or if
there is uh rumors uh about ceasefire or
um a temporary post for to to cope with
the with the situation they are
experiencing uh these days Hasam I
wanted to ask you about these these
reports of a of a possible ceasefire
which would allow foreign citizens to to
evacuate and of course allow
humanitarian Aid to come in have have
you heard any more uh about these rumors
about this possible
ceasefire all this rumors no concrete
information about this like all um I
mean at least from Ian side that Hamas
and and officials in Gaza they said we
haven't hear about it um there is no
concrete or solid information talking
about this all rumors there are like a
lot of mediations led by Egyptian and
cutter and other parties um but I mean
still on the ground there is no
confirmation on that all right Hasam
Bela reporting from the central Gaza
Strip thank you so much for your update
thank you we're joined Now by The World
Health organization's Regional director
for the Eastern Mediterranean Ahmed Al
mandari welcome to DW thanks so much for
your time we're hearing the Rafa border
crossing might be opening today can you
tell us what preparations are in place
once the Border opens to presumably get
Aid in as quickly as
possible thank you Ana for giving me the
opportunity and uh in fact you know yes
we heard that today morning the cross
border will be opened uh we as a who
already um landed one airplane full of
supplies medical supplies uh that are
ready to be you know shipped to Gaza
once the corridor is open uh our
arrangements with the Egyptian
authorities that these supplies will be
handed over to the Egyptian Crescent
which will be also from their side
handed handed over to the Palestinian
red Cresent on the other side and make
sure that these supplies will these
hospitals and will be given to the
healthcare facilities across Gaza could
I just ask you where are you getting the
information that the Border um will open
is there something that we can bet
on we are having our own communication
with you know the Egyptian authorities
we as a w as well as the UN resident
coordinator so that sort of arrangement
is with the Egyptian Authority but until
now we don't know exactly what time
today morning it will be open
okay you mentioned uh medical supplies
can you tell us more about the type of
Aid that you're going to be um able to
provide uh people with once you get
through the
crossing yeah I mean these supplies are
of around
26 metc tons that worth $1.2 million us
it included truma kits it included
emergency kits that can be utilized you
know to deal with injured people in in
the as well as the hospitals it included
medications for around um 120,000 people
who are suffering from non communicable
diseases it included also medical
supplies and medications for around
350,000 or 300,000 people including you
know pregnant ladies and children so
these are the briefly you know the
content of of these supplies okay the
need is obviously huge we're hearing
that the ceasefire agreement is only
meant for for southern Gaza is there
enough Aid that's going to be getting in
and will it reach people in the north as
well definitely you know whatever a that
we are shipping now is is below below
far below the real requirements there
and needs and that's why in fact we are
bleding we are urging all donors and
partners to provide us with these
medical supplies we have our own Supply
you know Hub in in Dubay and things are
ready there to be shipped we are just
waiting further arrangements from the
authorities here in Egypt but definitely
you know as you have seen on the ground
you know the number of the casualties
the destruction of the healthcare
facilities uh it is it is below far
below what is what are the real needs
there on the ground all right the W the
W the world health organizations Ahmed
Al Mander thank you so much for your
time and for bringing us up to
date